## `rawterm_pp` {#Parse.rawterm_pp}


```
rawterm_pp : ('a -> 'b) -> 'a -> 'b
```



Causes a function to use the raw terminal backend when pretty-printing.


Functions that pretty-print HOL types, terms and theorems do so
through an abstraction called a “backend”. Using these backends
allows output to be customised to the facilities provided by different
display devices. For example, on terminals supporting DEC’s vt100
colour coding, free variables are displayed in blue. There is also a
“raw terminal” backend, that doesn’t change the output in any way.

When an interactive session begins, HOL links all of the
pretty-printing functions to a backend value stored in a reference,
`Parse.current_backend`. Of course, this reference can be changed as a
user desires. A call to `rawterm_pp f` function wraps a call to
`Lib.with_flag`, setting the current backend to be the raw terminal
value for the duration of the `f`’s application to its (first)
argument.

### Failure

A call to `rawterm_pp f` never fails. A call to `rawterm_pp f x`
should only fail if `f x` would fail, but this ultimately depends on
`f`’s implementation.

### Example

In a `vt100`-compatible terminal, capturing the output of `pp_term`
reveals a stream of horrible-looking escape codes:
    
       > ppstring pp_term ``p /\ q``;
       val it = "\^[[0;1;34mp\^[[0m /\\ \^[[0;1;34mq\^[[0m": string
    
If this string is to be `print`-ed to the `vt100`, it will colour the
`p` and `q` a pleasant blue colour. If, on the other hand, the string
is to be output to a file, the colouring is probably not desirable.
Then one can use `rawterm_pp` to get the unadorned characters of the
output:
    
       > rawterm_pp (ppstring pp_term) ``p /\ q``;
       val it = "p /\\ q": string
    
This last usage is so common that it is already available in the
library as `term_to_string`.

### Comments

If a function `f` is curried with multiple arguments, say `f x y`,
then care will probably be needed with modifying it with `rawterm_pp`.
In particular, `rawterm_pp f x y` is likely not to work, while
`rawterm_pp (f x) y` probably will.

### See also

[`Lib.ppstring`](#Lib.ppstring), [`Parse.term_to_string`](#Parse.term_to_string), [`Lib.with_flag`](#Lib.with_flag)

