% =====================================================================	%
% TAMARACK 2 - Register-Transfer Level Implementation			%

Jeff Joyce, Cambridge University, 14 June 1989
Thomas Tuerk, Ramana Kumar, port to modern HOL, 22 April 2018

This directory contains the HOL sources for the formal specification and
verification of a very simple microprocessor called "Tamarack-2".  The
file "writeup.tex" is the latex source for an introductory discussion
on hardware verification based on the HOL sources in this directory
(there are some minor differences in the write-up from the proofs).

Tamarack-2 is a simplified version of the original version of Tamarack
where the "idle cycle" aspect of the design has been eliminated.  The
instruction set is also slightly different:  The HALT instruction from
the old version of Tamarack is gone leaving a NOP instruction in its
place (there are now two opcodes for a NOP operation).  Different opcodes
have been assigned to instructions than those used in Tamarack-1.

These source were orignally written for an older version of HOL - some
bits have been added to the start of most sources in this directory to
make them compatible with HOL88 (all very simple things like turning on
"sticky types" and stripping quantifiers off definitions).

Otherwise, the sources in this directory are still in the state I left
them in when I first did this example ...  I still need to do alot of
clean-up.  Some things like the theory "wop" are no longer needed since
they are built into HOL88.  There is also a MOD function defined in HOL88
but for the time being I have just kept my own theory of modular arithmetic
so that I don't have to make changes to all the sources to use whatever
theorems about MOD are now built into HOL88.

In April 2018 this example was ported further to HOL 4. The original
developments of arithmetic theories especially developments about DIV and
MOD were not ported.
